Readme revamp (#452)
VirtusLab/git-machete-intellij-plugin: DEVELOPMENT.md

* [Checkstyle](https://checkstyle.sourceforge.io/) for code style/detecting basic smells (see [top-level config](config/checkstyle/checkstyle.xml))
* [Checker Framework](https://checkerframework.org/manual/) for formal correctness, esp. wrt. null safety and UI thread handling
  (most config in [build.gradle](build.gradle), stubs in [config/checker/](config/checker))

Other coding conventions include:

* Don't write nullary lambdas in `receiver::method` notation, use explicit `() -> receiver.method()` notation instead. <br/>
  `::` notation is confusing when applied to parameterless lambdas, as it suggests a unary lambda.
* Use `get...` method names for pure methods that only return the value without doing any heavy workload like accessing git repository. <br/>
  Use `derive...` method names for methods that actually compute their result and/or can return a different value every time when accessed.
* Non-obvious method params that have values like `false`, `true`, `0`, `1`, `null`, `""` should be preceded with a `/* comment */ `
  containing the name of the param.

> ## Check dependency updates

Reviewer: Move up, close to other Gradle-related stuff

  and doesn't change the range of supported IDEA builds.

### Sample sequence of versions between releases

After a release e.g. `1.0.3`, subsequent PRs merged to `develop` might change `PROSPECTIVE_RELEASE_VERSION`
in [version.gradle](version.gradle) in the following way:
1. `1.0.4` (bugfix PR)  - the first PR merged to develop after the release must bump `PROSPECTIVE_RELEASE_VERSION` since of course the prospective release won't be `1.0.3` anymore
1. `1.0.4` (bugfix PR)  - even if a new set of patch-level changes has been added on the PR, the released version is still going to be `1.0.4` (not `1.0.5`)
1. `1.1.0` (feature PR) - since we've just added a new feature, the new release won't be a PATCH-level anymore, but MINOR-level one
1. `1.1.0` (bugfix PR)  - even if a new feature has been added on the PR, the released version is still going to be `1.1.0` (not `1.2.0`)
1. `2.0.0` (breaking change PR)
1. `2.0.0` (feature PR) - again, still `2.0.0` and not e.g. `2.1.0`
1. `2.0.0` (bugfix PR)
1. `2.0.0` (release PR) - finally releasing as major release; as a consequence, `1.0.4` and `1.1.0` never actually gets released

### IDE supported versions

> Since we cannot skip `untilBuild` field in plugin build configuration (see related [issue](https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete-intellij-plugin/issues/460) and [YouTrack ticket](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/IJSDK-888)) the most reasonable approach is to bump `untilBuild` since each new EAP or RC is released.

Reviewer: Pls refine this section, it's rather unclear now; best use the `N`/`N-1` etc. placeholders for versions

# Development

## Prerequisites

* git

> * IntelliJ 2020.1 Community Edition/Ultimate

Reviewer: To avoid constantly bumping this version as well when a new release comes out: just
```suggestion
* latest IntelliJ Community Edition/Ultimate
```

Reviewer: @micpiotrowski: doesn't seem updated

Author: Ouh, my fault, done.

  * Install [Lombok plugin](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/6317-lombok/)
  * Enable annotation processing (for Lombok):
    `File` -> `Settings` -> `Build`, `Execution`, `Deployment` -> `Compiler` -> `Annotation Processors` -> `Enable Annotation Processing`
  * Set Project SDK to JDK 11: `Project Structure` -> `Project`

Consider increasing maximum heap size for the IDE (the default value is 2048 MB) under `Help` -> `Change Memory Settings`.

For running `./gradlew` from command line, make sure that `java` and `javac` are in `PATH` and point to Java 11.

For running tests of `backendImpl` (which are included under `./gradlew test`, which is in turn itself included under `./gradlew build`),
install [`git-machete` CLI](https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete#install) (preferably via `pip install git-machete==<version>`)

> in the version present in [backendImpl/src/test/resources/reference-cli-version.properties](backendImpl/src/test/resources/reference-cli-version.properties).

Author: I think that in this case full path is preferred, so I'd leave as is

> in the version present in [backendImpl/src/test/resources/reference-cli-version.properties](backendImpl/src/test/resources/reference-cli-version.properties).

Reviewer: yeah, full path FTW

> in the version present in [backendImpl/src/test/resources/reference-cli-version.properties](backendImpl/src/test/resources/reference-cli-version.properties).

Reviewer: So leave as is, no action required

By default, IntelliJ logs everything with level `INFO` and above into `idea.log` file. <br/>
The exact location depends on a specific IntelliJ installation; check `Help` -> `Show Log in Files` to find out. <br/>
Tip: use `tail -f` to watch the log file as it grows.

To enable logging in `DEBUG` level, add selected categories to list in `Help` -> `Diagnostic Tools` -> `Debug Log Settings`. <br/>
A relatively small amount of `TRACE`-level logs is generated as well.

## Coding conventions

Most non-standard/project-specific conventions are enforced by:

* [pre-commit hook](scripts/run-pre-build-checks)
* [Spotless](https://github.com/diffplug/spotless/tree/master/plugin-gradle) for Java code formatting (see [Eclipse-compatible config](config/spotless/formatting-rules.xml))
* [Checkstyle](https://checkstyle.sourceforge.io/) for code style/detecting basic smells (see [top-level config](config/checkstyle/checkstyle.xml))
* [Checker Framework](https://checkerframework.org/manual/) for formal correctness, esp. wrt. null safety and UI thread handling
  (most config in [build.gradle](build.gradle), stubs in [config/checker/](config/checker))

> Note that certain Checker Framework's checkers (`Index`, `Optional`, `Regex`) are by default only run in the CI to speed up local compilation. <br/>

Reviewer: Whoops this is also outdated, just remove it completely (already documented under `Build`)

  and doesn't change the range of supported IDEA builds.

### Sample sequence of versions between releases

After a release e.g. `1.0.3`, subsequent PRs merged to `develop` might change `PROSPECTIVE_RELEASE_VERSION`
in [version.gradle](version.gradle) in the following way:
1. `1.0.4` (bugfix PR)  - the first PR merged to develop after the release must bump `PROSPECTIVE_RELEASE_VERSION` since of course the prospective release won't be `1.0.3` anymore
1. `1.0.4` (bugfix PR)  - even if a new set of patch-level changes has been added on the PR, the released version is still going to be `1.0.4` (not `1.0.5`)
1. `1.1.0` (feature PR) - since we've just added a new feature, the new release won't be a PATCH-level anymore, but MINOR-level one
1. `1.1.0` (bugfix PR)  - even if a new feature has been added on the PR, the released version is still going to be `1.1.0` (not `1.2.0`)
1. `2.0.0` (breaking change PR)
1. `2.0.0` (feature PR) - again, still `2.0.0` and not e.g. `2.1.0`
1. `2.0.0` (bugfix PR)
1. `2.0.0` (release PR) - finally releasing as major release; as a consequence, `1.0.4` and `1.1.0` never actually gets released

### IDE supported versions

> Since we cannot skip `untilBuild` field in plugin build configuration (see related [issue](https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete-intellij-plugin/issues/460) and [YouTrack ticket](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/IJSDK-888)) the most reasonable approach is to bump `untilBuild` to `X.*` when new `X` EAP or RC version will be released.

Reviewer: Nit:
```suggestion
Since we cannot skip `untilBuild` field in plugin build configuration
(see related [issue](https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete-intellij-plugin/issues/460) 
and [YouTrack ticket](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/IJSDK-888)),
the most reasonable approach is to bump `untilBuild` to `X.*` when the new `X` EAP or RC version is released.
```

Reviewer: Rule of the thumb: there's never future tense after `when`, and almost never after `if`

> Then we should verify ASAP that our plugin is compatible with `X`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once stable (non-EAP/RC) `X` is released, we should verify ASAP that our plugin is compatible with `X`.
```

> If it is, there is a little chance to our plugin that is compatible with `X` and doesn't use any `X EAP/RC`-related API (is compatible with `X-1`) be NOT compatible with not EAP/RC `X` release of IDE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If it is, there is a rather little risk that the plugin, which is compatible with `X - 1` and does **not** use any `X EAP/RC`-related API, turns to be **not** compatible with stable `X` release of IDE.
```

For instance:
1. our plugin in version `0.6.0` is compatible with IntelliJ `2020.2`
2. then IntelliJ `2020.3-EAP` is released
3. we check if `0.6.0` is compatible with IntelliJ `2020.3-EAP` (if not we must refactor it)

> 4. we extend `untilBuild` in our plugin to `2020.3.*` and release it as `0.7.0`

Reviewer: ```
5. once stable `2020.3` is released, we verify ASAP that `0.7.0` is binary compatible with `2020.3` as well
```

install [`git-machete` CLI](https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete#install) (preferably via `pip install git-machete==<version>`)
in the version present in [backendImpl/src/test/resources/reference-cli-version.properties](backendImpl/src/test/resources/reference-cli-version.properties).

### Optional

[Grammar-Kit IntelliJ plugin](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/6606-grammar-kit) can be used instead of Gradle plugin
to manually generate grammar and lexer code from `.bnf` and `.flex` files.

When running IntelliJ instance with a plugin loaded then [PsiViewer IntelliJ plugin](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/227-psiviewer)
can be helpful to see parsing result on machete file.

## Build

To build the project, run `./gradlew build`.

Currently, very generous maximum heap size options are applied for Gradle's Java compilation tasks (search for `-Xmx` in [build.gradle](build.gradle)). <br/>
To overwrite them, use `compileJavaJvmArgs` Gradle project property
(e.g. `./gradlew -PcompileJavaJvmArgs='-Xmx2g -XX:+HeapDumpOnOutOfMemoryError' build`,

> or equivalently with an env var: `ORG_GRADLE_PROJECT_compileJavaJvmArgs='-Xmx2g -XX:+HeapDumpOnOutOfMemoryError' ./gradlew compileJava`).

Reviewer: Nit/not your doing: `s/compileJava/build` for consistency with the previous lines

By default, Lombok's annotation processor runs on the fly and Delomboked sources are not saved to {subproject}/build/delombok/...<br/>
To enable Delombok, set `useDelombok` Gradle project property (e.g. `./gradlew -PuseDelombok build`).

Local (non-CI) builds by default skip most of [Checker Framework's](https://checkerframework.org/manual/) checkers to speed up Java compilation.<br/>

> To make local builds more aligned with CI builds (at the expense of ~2x slower compilation from scratch),

Reviewer: Same, `s/slower/longer`

set `runAllCheckers` Gradle project property (e.g. `./gradlew -PrunAllCheckers build`).

In case of spurious cache-related issues with Gradle build, try one of the following:

> * `./gradlew clean` and re-run the failing `./gradlew` command with `--no-build-cache`

Reviewer: While you're here, add `./gradlew --stop` as the very first measure to try (before this line)

## Run & debug

To run an instance of IDE with Git Machete IntelliJ Plugin installed from the current source,
execute `:runIde` Gradle task (`Gradle panel` -> `Tasks` -> `intellij` -> `runIde` or `./gradlew runIde`).

To watch the logs of this IntelliJ instance, run `tail -f build/idea-sandbox/system/log/idea.log`.

## Run UI tests

```
./scripts/run-ui-tests [<intellij-version>]
```

See [Gradle Intellij plugin docs](https://github.com/JetBrains/gradle-intellij-plugin/tree/master/examples/ui-test-example)
for more details.

## Generate plugin zip

To generate a plugin archive run `:buildPlugin` Gradle task (`Gradle panel` -> `Tasks` -> `intellij` -> `buildPlugin` or `./gradlew buildPlugin`).<br/>
The resulting file will be available under `build/distributions/`.

## Install snapshot build of the plugin from CI

Download the zip file from the artifacts of the given build in [CircleCI](https://app.circleci.com/pipelines/github/VirtusLab/git-machete-intellij-plugin). <br/>
Go to `File` -> `Settings` -> `Plugins` -> `(gear icon)` -> `Install Plugin from Disk...`, select the zip and restart IDE.

## Contributing

> For more details on contributing to the project, see the [guideline](CONTRIBUTING.md).

Reviewer: Hmm TBH I don't think keeping CONTRIBUTING.md makes sense given that we have DEVELOPMENT.md; a reference to DEVELOPMENT.md from README.md would be useful, though

Reviewer: Oh ok, the latter part is done already, didn't notice; still, the former point holds

> ## Versioning

Reviewer: Also, while you're at this file... pls add a section that would tell the conclusions from https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete-intellij-plugin/issues/460
